Welcome, in this video, we're going to be looking at the difference between "fetch" and "pull".
Right now, I'm in the "website" repository, which I have linked to my repository on GitHub.
And, while I'm here, I'm going to make a quick edit directly on my GitHub repository.
Now, we'll actually go into this a little bit deeper in other videos,
but for now, I just want to do a quick update. I'm going to pick on the "index.html" file,
and click on "Edit this file". And, let's give this a title: "My website".
Scroll down, and provide a commit message.
I'm going to leave the extended description blank;
I'm going to leave this on commit directly to master, and now let's commit our change.
Great, we just updated our remote repository,
a change of which our local repository is currently unaware.
So, let's return to our terminal; if I do a "git status",
it tells me that everything is "up-to-date with 'origin/master' ",
which is the master branch on our origin remote reference,
which is a synonym to our GitHub repository.
While on master, let's go ahead and modify our file on our local repository.
I'm going to make some updates to the Readme file; save and then close.
Once back on the terminal, let's use the express commit to commit our changes:
"Updating README". Great, so doing a "git status"
Git tells me that I'm "ahead of 'origin/master' by 1 commit.";
however, we know that we made a commit on GitHub directly.
Let's try pushing up our change: "git push". When we try to push this time,
GitHub rejected our attempt to push up; it's telling us to "fetch" first.
One thing to keep in mind, is although we've been using the term "pull",
a "pull" is really two commands in one; it is a "fetch" and it is also a "merge".
Git will first fetch all the updates from the remote repository,
and then it will merge those changes into our current repository.
Obviously, there's opportunity for this to fail in the form of a merge conflict,
but often times those merges go in automatically, or as a fast-forward.
Well, let's say that we're not sure; so we could either do a fetch or a pull in this scenario.
If we did the pull, we would automatically integrate any changes that are out on GitHub;
however, that can be a destructive command
if you have changes that are not compatible with what's currently on GitHub.
So, one way to alleviate that is just to do a "fetch"; fetches are non-destructive.
"git fetch"; Git will now go out to our remote repository
and update all of its local information based on what's changed out on GitHub.
Now, when we do a "git status", Git tells us that 'origin/master'
has diverged from our local master branch;
that we have one commit that's different on each side.
And, it recommends that we use "git pull" to automatically merge our remote branch.
Technically, we could do this with the "git merge" command as well,
but just like the advice given, I often find that just doing a "git pull" is a lot simpler.
Type "git pull". Since the master branch on both sides were different,
what's occurring is a merge commit.
Thankfully, there's no conflicts, or we would be in a "merging" state.
Either accept this default commit message or provide your own.
I'm perfectly content with this commit message,
so I'm going to save and then close my text editor.
That accepts the commit message for this merge commit; however, we're not done,
we just merged down everything from GitHub.
GitHub is still unaware of our changes, so we need to push up what we have.
Type "git push". Great, now that we have pulled down all our changes
there are no conflicts between GitHub and our local repo.
So, when we do a push, it goes in just fine. Doing a pull, or a fetch, prior to any pushes
is a best practice, and a necessity if you are sharing your repository with others.
Alright, let's go very our changes on GitHub.
If I reload, we can see the last commit message
is our merge commit message that we just entered in with our text editor.
And, you can see the updates to the Readme file;
the index was already updated on GitHub.